# Discovering Knowledge for the City of Charlotte, NC
This project is a course requirement for DSBA-6162, Knowledge Discovery in Databases, at UNCC for the Fall semester, 2021.

**Team Members:**

###### Naomi Thammadi
###### Kevin Gharavizadeh
###### Imad Ahmad
###### Dustin Ballentine


## Project Motivation
The city of Charlotte has, like many cities, made large volumes of data open to the public in an online repository. This open data provides substantial potential for the city to benefit from knowledge discovery and insights generated by members of the public, such as ourselves. Service requests dialed to 311 represent a large opportunity to delve into the needs of the population and potentially extract useful trends that could allow the city to improve its service to its citizens. The goal of this project is to explore and uncover exactly those trends in the hope that the knowledge we discover may be used by the city to improve the quality of life of our families, friends, and neighbors.
## Research Question
Do different areas within the city of Charlotte experience higher recurrence of any type of 311 service request than other areas, and do those areas correlate with red-line districts or other known demographic or socioeconomic profiles?
## Data Resources
<ol>
<li> 311 Service Requests. </li> Data was retrieved from the City of Charlotte's
<a href="https://data.charlottenc.gov/datasets/charlotte::service-requests-311/about"> Open Data Portal </a>
on 30 September, 2021. The data set is a collection of the public records requests received by the City of Charlotte from 2017 through March, 2020. It contains multiple descriptive fields related to service request entry, including request type, location (street, lat/long, etc.), date, city department responsible for the request, and point of entry.
<li> Census Household Income Data </li>
<li> Violent Crime Data </li>
</ol>
## Python libraries to install
Before running any of the Jupyter notebooks mentioned in the repository, the below libraries need to be installed in the local machine using Anaconda:

```
    pip install missingno
    pip install geopandas
    pip install contextily
```

## Data Preprocessing
### 311 Service Requests
From the initial 311 service requests dataset, we dropped 15 features which were either redundant or contained too many missing values. We also dropped just over 99,000 records that contained null values for address, zipcode, and LAT/LON coordinates, since those are the fields of primary interest to our analysis, we have no reasonable way to impute those fields, and that represented only about 5.5% of the data. Finally, we dropped an additional 8,279 records which pertained to COVID-19 protocols, Solid Waste Services administrative functions such as a data upload, and 8 additional call types which had fewer than 10 total occurrences. <br>
Moving on with the 14 remaining features, we transformed two features and engineered another five as discussed below:
##### Transformations
<ol>
  <li> RECEIVED_DATE - Simple datatype transformation from object to datetime </li>
  <li> FULL_ADDRESS - Replaced with a rank-ordered index, with 1 representing the address with the highest call volume, ascending in order inversely to the volume of 311 calls. </li>
</ol>
##### Engineered Features
<ol>
  <li> REQUEST_CAT </li>
  <li> RECEIVED_YEAR </li>
  <li> RECEIVED_MONTH </li>
  <li> SEASON </li>
  <li> TOTAL_CALLS </li>
</ol>

### Census Income Data

### Violent Crime Data

## Data Understanding and Exploration
### Overview
### Time Series and Seasonality
### Customer Observations
### Geographic Analysis

## Data Preparation for Modeling
## Modeling
## Evaluation
## Results
## Future Work
## Possible future work may include:
<ol>
  <li>Explore correlations between weather and 311 service requests</li>
  <li>Predict high call volume days or periods to alleviate workload and wait time concerns</li>
  <li>Explore correlations between location and specific service requests' response times</li>
</ol>
